---
title: "Painting"
date: 2025-06-15T18:14:37-04:00
draft: true
summary: watching, watching, and never doing &ldquo;the thing.&rdquo;
type: large
format: large

---

I’m watching this TV show called *Shtisel,* about a Haredi family in Jerusalem. Akiva is on the train with his dad flirting with this secular-looking girl who’s just begun the process of “finding god.” He’s so handsome, Akiva, in that lost way, handsome boys get special attention from women and are prone to getting lost in it, I suppose. I find that adorable. I'm not so attracted to him, I am entertained.

I’m entering this stage of life where I’m somewhat divorced from my femininity. I no longer really feel that it’s relevant to be attractive, in my personal life, it’s only a tool for my job, less than a tool even, a basic infrastructural edifice for paying my rent. So it’s nice to see a man who’s in the process of discovering his own beauty and the beauty of women. His innocent little grin, his pleasure which he cannot hide, it makes me think of my own in the past, when I was new to all this, surprised that I could have an effect on others, that they’d want to spend time with me, kiss me, hug me, fuck me, feed me, allow me to stay the night, and wake up the next morning next to them. Since I started streaming, I’ve become quite desensitized to the question of whether I look attractive, maybe because it brings me something so intangible, something I cannot really appreciate. It brings me money, money is of baseline importance to life, but it doesn’t bring much beyond that. Instead of appreciating any of the beauty I might have, I’m only aware of deficits: slight bloating on left jowl, a new dark mark, a pustule emerging, more visible wrinkles, dark eye circles, little hairs on my upper lip or chin. I’m so used to seeing myself as this tool of sorts.

That man on the train whom I’m attracted to, Jewish Daddy, never really looks at me. I've seen him at least twice as many times as I had when I last wrote about him. But he looked at me a little today, I think, and maybe he finally recognized me as that person on the train whom he sees repeatedly. He's the only person in the entirety of New York City whom I see repeatedly on the train (though that’s not true, there’s another Jewish man on the train I recognize). And what’s more, I found out his name. I found out because he was walking up the stairs right above me and I saw the name of his company’s logo embroidered on his bag.

He works in corporate law, in one of the WTC buildings, one I've been inside, because I dated a man who worked in that building. He looks so much younger, and more cheerful, in his photo. Not at all like this serious sulking man hunched over his prayers who displays an intense, critical look when he’s looking up. So I got a different view of him, I guess. And he is absolutely married, I am sure of it now, it’s just not customary to wear a wedding ring in Orthodox Judaism.

I tell my analyst that I’m going to learn Hebrew on the train. I observed a second Jewish man reading from the Siddur Ashkenaz the other day and he seemed so lazy and relaxed in comparison to Jewish Daddy. He’d look off into the distance as he was mouthing the prayers, and he definitely looked at me several times. After that, I thought, it’s not just my crush who does this on the train, and there are many ways of being, one can read in the intense, hunched-over focused way, but one can also be open to the environment while reading the prayers. Also, my beloved Jewish Daddy took off his baseball cap last time, and bared his head.

Things aren’t going so well right now, at least in terms of how I feel. I’m anxious, and I have restless legs, I woke up in the middle of the night because I felt I needed to flex or kick my legs, this used to happen to me when I was a child and adolescent, and right after I stopped taking testosterone. I’m feeling really starved by something in my relationship with Adam, the manifest reason being that I’m not allowed to sleep over at his place or have sex with him so long as his penis is involved, because either thing would disrupt the focus he needs to read on the weekends. As ridiculous as it sounds, it makes sense to me, and I’ve waited these months to see if anything might change. Things haven’t really changed, except that I’m feeling more resentful, I’m feeling that it’s going to be hard to have a relationship with someone I associate so strongly with deprivation. I also feel violated by my own will: am I only doing this to “atone” for the fact that I was so uncaring or uncareful during my first year with Adam. Or am I only attracted to this situation because it’s what I knew the last time I was in love, all that deprivation compounded by distance and intensified by the beauty of his writing. Anyway, I don’t even feel horny anymore, I stopped feeling desire. I feel alarmed instead, and my anguish is animal-like.

Also, I got approved for a one-bedroom apartment on Friday and I’m going to live alone starting July 1st, I’m nervous about it. What if this rent-stabilized building is really chaotic, what if there are a lot of issues with it? What if I don’t like living there, in fact, what if the whole process of starting over there takes a lot of important time out of my life. Also, I’m just allowing my income to tank this month. I don’t “deserve” it. The harshness of my superego doesn’t stop, it doesn’t allow me to really believe I can live in my very own apartment. Someone allowing me to live alone on this income probably means they will punish me for it. I can't say I'm ashamed to be a camwhore but maybe I am.


Anyway, things aren’t going so well for Akiva Shtisel. The twice-widowed woman whom I was swooning over left the community to move to London, they can’t be together. His cousin who he was dating got engaged to him on the condition that he stop painting, but then he started painting again and told her about it and now they aren’t engaged. She wants him to be a serious Jew, she’s worried after he tells her that he forgot to put on the tefillin while praying the other day. Then his dad says, just paint, just finish the contract with the gallerist, so he does. And now his dad is furious with him for painting a likeness of his mother where some of her hairs are visible. On TV the interviewer said, doesn’t it look like a Christian image of Mother Mary? His dad, Shulem, is furious, says he painted her like a whore in the market, a whore in the market, and Akiva says it wasn’t real life, that it was an image, a fantasy, a memory of a memory, not his mother but also his mother. But "EVERYTHING'S REAL LIFE,” roars Shulem.